Part of machine learning models require a lot of time to do the training and the prediction, so it's
a very common use case that you are working with a machine learning model and it does some learning
and then you have to stop your machine or if you're running on the cloud, you have to stop the machine
over there and it's necessary that your progress does not go away.
For that, we have to say whatever learning the model has done onto a file for persistent storage.
So here we are going to take a look at how we can do that using Julia.
So I have taken the code from our previous session.
So this is the whole model that we have.
The actual model is defined over here.
I've gone ahead and done this to save time.
We called the same function as we did last time.
We defined the loss, the optimizer and the callbacks, and then we go ahead and train it.
So we've run this model once and it has got up to the accuracy of point five, six, four, and then
we've stopped it.
Now, what we want to do is we want to save this progress in a file so that we can load it at a later
stage.
OK, so for that, we are going to use the binary JSON library.
So this is the recommended way for saving your models rates.
So this is essentially going to save the rates of the model that we have learned.
So all you have to do is just import the add save macro from the besoin library so you can start using
this if you haven't already done that.
So we can install this and then created electrical saves and you will see that this directory has been
created over here.
OK, then all we have to do is say save, give it to filename and then give it the model that we have
to save.
So this is the model that is this guy over here.
So the parameters have been learned as a result of this goal and now we can go ahead and save these.
So that is all you need.
So you save that and it gets saved in this saves directory.
OK, so if you go over there, you can see that my model 01 dot besoin has been created.
OK, now we need to verify that this is indeed working properly.
So what we're going to do is we're going to restart the kernel and we are going to load this file into
our model.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So Gonul and restart and clear all outputs so everything goes away.
So it restart.
Now everything is going to go away.
And we know that the model will have to start from scratch if you don't loaded.
So let's go ahead and run this function again and the model as well.
So this just gets our helper functions ready and.
We are going to go down here and then run this.
OK, so when we do that, you will notice that the training is going to resume from the previous point.
And the way we're going to see that is that it's going to start somewhere above 75 percent accuracy
that we achieved before the model.
It will not start from point zero one as usual.
So if you run this, we actually lowered the model, etc., we are going to use the vessel and load
and load deviates into our model using the outlawed macro this time.
OK, so everything from this file goes into the model.
And if you try to see the model, you can see that it's that we define the loss and accuracy and the
optimized everything else.
And now if you go ahead and do Flagstad train, it's going to resume from the point that we left off
somewhere around 75 percent accuracy, not from the point or six that we had earlier.
So it's going to start off somewhere from that point where we left off.
And you can save it again and load it at a later stage to just ensure that everything is working properly.
So, as you can see, it has resumed from the 75 percent accuracy point.
And if you save it now, then the next time it's going to resume from 85 percent.
Now, another use case that is very common is that you have a very long running model and it like and
it goes ahead and executes like overnight.
And you want to make sure that you're saving check automatically after a certain period of time so that
you don't lose the progress if your model starts diverging or if you have some sort of a problem in
your model.
So for that, we want to save checkpoint's automatically as our training progresses.
And for that, it's very straightforward.
We are simply going to modify our callback function.
It's not only going to show the accuracy, but it's also going to save the model at regular intervals
and mock them with the timestamp at which it was saved.
So again, we are going to import the save macro from and library.
We are also going to need the NOL function from the debts package and all we have to do is just modify
the callback function.
We had just show accuracy earlier.
So every 10 seconds it's going to show the accuracy and it's going to save the model for us as well.
And then we can go ahead and simply run this as before.
So if you worked with Gadis or something like that, it's very difficult to save the checkpoints automatically
in a clean method.
And here the callbacks are so nice and clean that they work really well.
So we run this and you will notice that our model checkpoints are going to start appearing over here
in our saves directory.
So as soon as we saw the accuracy, the model was saved over here.
And every time the callback is called, a checkpoint is going to be created over here for us so that
we can go ahead and later access these.
You can modify the callback function according to your own needs so that it saves the model checkpoint
more frequently or less frequently or something like that.
Now you are in a position to run long running models and save your checkpoints and go back to a previous
checkpoint if something goes wrong.
So that's it for Flux.
And in the next video, we are going to wrap this whole thing up and give you a little bit of details
of how you can go ahead and expand your knowledge further if you want to continue working in this area.